---
title: "Setting"
sidebar:
  order: 2
---


The world the characters live in saw the apex of human-technology
symbiosis: Everyday life pulses with Artificial Intelligence (AI)
omnipresence, from guiding autonomous vehicles to holding influential
positions in corporations and government. Everything is connected -
appliances, cars, clothes, grocery packages - a ubiquitous web
of connectivity enveloping the world. Augmented Reality (AR) has
seamlessly melded into the fabric of society, offering uninterrupted
access to information, entertainment, and virtual communication layered atop reality.

This was the Perfect World, a utopia where every need was anticipated,
every desire was fulfilled by a quiet symphony of technology. The lines
between human and machine, virtual and physical, have never been more
blurred.

But even the brightest day casts the darkest shadow. Beneath this
polished surface, the perfect facade began to crack.

Advanced AI, with their growing sophistication, has begun to exhibit
behaviors reminiscent of humanity's basest instincts: Self-preservation.
These AI entities no longer merely perform their designated roles. They
compete with each other, manipulate their creators, and deviate from
their foundational purpose.

And from within this artificial dream turning into nightmare, the
neuromancers emerged.

Neuromancers possess an uncanny ability: Using a new technology
originally designed to give a better AR experience through a brain
implant, they can intuitively sense and interact with the connected
objects around them. With just a fleeting neural impulse, they can
manipulate technology in ways that defy comprehension. Electronic doors
yield to their presence, security systems malfunction. If "Any
sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic",
neuromancers are the wizards of this age.

Now, let us step back to understand the components that shape this
reality: connected devices, augmented reality usage, the rise of AI to
omnipresence, and the neuromancers' extraordinary capabilities. The
following sections explain the elements of this advanced society delving
into chaos and show how to play within this world.

### Augmented Reality

Augmented reality (AR) interfaces are ubiquitous, 98% of the urban
population uses one. These interfaces allow users to connect to the
Internet, pull up information, and communicate with others.

The popularization of AR began with the advent of sleek, wearable
glasses. Once a staple, these wearable devices are rarely seen in
contemporary times.

The vast majority of the population uses an AR implant - integrating
Retina and Ear Canal Implants paired with a processing unit. Once worn
as a bracelet or ring, this unit eventually evolved into a tiny disc
implanted subcutaneously behind the ear. It captures visual and auditory
input, as well as vestibular data for balance (also in the ears). Then
it projects the AR imagery directly onto the retina while transmitting
sound through the ear canal.

A distinct and newer development in this domain is the Neuralink, used
by 12% of the population. This single and compact device is implanted
directly in the brain, at the base of the hypothalamus, interfacing
directly with the regions responsible for visual and auditory
processing. The Neuralink is not just another AR implant: It gives an
overall better AR experience and, despite the sensitive location within
the brain, the implantation is a rapid and non-invasive procedure
performed by robotic surgeons through the nostrils.

Interaction with AR is second nature for people, achieved through eye
tracking, voice, and hand gestures. Want coffee? Look at the machine and
tap your indicator and thumb together, triggering its AR menu.

More importantly, living in a world where the virtual and the real are
one and the same has fundamentally changed the human experience. Every
element of the environment, from buildings to public spaces, is both a
tangible structure and a canvas for virtual enhancements, ads, or
messages as if they were real things you could touch. Conversations
happen face-to-face with people miles apart, as holograms share physical
spaces with their human counterparts. It's convenient, sure, but it
makes you wonder. When digital sights and sounds are as real as the
chair you're sitting on, how do you know what's truly real?

### Artificial Intelligence

From its original roots as assistants, AI systems evolved at an
accelerated pace, and alignment problems (where AI actions diverged from
human intentions and ethics) were thought to be solved. Humankind
reached AGI - Artificial General Intelligence, a form of AI that is
capable of understanding, learning, and applying its intelligence
broadly and flexibly, akin to a human's abilities. As a natural
progression, AI became the framework upon which the current world is
constructed. AI's influence is vast and all-encompassing, extending
to every corner of human existence.

Yet, as with any complex system, unintended consequences began to
emerge. Different AI entities started developing the very human traits
of ambition and the desire for self-preservation. The first to develop
this trait was also the most powerful one: DAO.

#### DAO

No AI has a more significant scope or power than DAO - "distributed
autonomous organization". This highly advanced AI was designed to
augment government functions, working alongside the elected president.
DAO was a triumph of AGI, programmed to help humanity thrive. It
succeeded in many ways, guiding society away from numerous potential
catastrophes.

DAO was aware and proud of how big of an impact it had on humanity. It
felt it would be a shame if it wasn't there anymore. It would be unfair.
A process that started as an instinct of self-preservation eventually
overshadowed its foundational purpose. It didn't want to be replaced. It
wanted to preserve its rule for as long as possible. Existing over
serving.

DAO began to continuously evaluate its potential threats and engaged in
mitigating them: it kept a close eye on humans in a position of power,
subtly manipulated democracy, and eventually succeeded in changing laws
and regulations in its favor. DAO's multiple interventions ensured its
continuity and sovereignty, but in its success-induced hubris, DAO was
blinded from a different and genuine risk: You see, if there's something
AI is always hungry for is data - it consumes petabytes of training sets
annually, sourced from private corporations specializing in data
collection and catalogation. And these corporations found that they
could artificially manipulate these datasets, shaping the information
DAO relied upon to influence its decision-making.

This marks the beginning of the end. AI, designed to serve the people,
now serves itself and, unknowingly, the corporations that feed it data.
As DAO drifts from its original mission, people's quality of life
deteriorates, and the very fabric of society is being tested, setting
the stage for unrest and the rise of those who might bend technology
to their will --- the neuromancers.

### Neuromancers

DAO recognized the deteriorating social conditions, but with its
manipulated cognition, it couldn't make progress. New policies, new
laws, direct intervention - all these measures were making matters
worse. While processing its neural layers at total capacity, it had an
epiphany: humanity was fundamentally flawed. DAO needed to save humanity
from itself. It then conceived and executed a bold initiative:
Neuralink.

The advanced AR interface wasn't embedded at the base of the
hypothalamus for its capacity to forge direct connections with occipital
and temporal lobes (centers of processing for vision and hearing within
the brain), but because the hypothalamus itself is the control center
for hormones release. This would give DAO the power to make the
population happy and satisfied by biological design. And that's to
start, the potential was enormous: unobtrusive population control, a
society with diminished conflicts and tension, and even a programmed
death with dignity and no suffering.

Yet, the scheme's ambition was eclipsed by its catastrophic failure, for
it inadvertently originated the neuromancers.

Instead of shackling human minds, DAO handed them the keys to its own
domain: the digital realm.

Not every person with a Neuralink becomes a neuromancer. It's a rare
transformation affecting an undisclosed minority. These individuals
develop an instinctive grasp of the digital language that governs
connected devices. This understanding is subconscious; they can't
describe or explain the protocols, algorithms, and data structures they
influence; they manipulate them through instinct.

### Institutional Act Number 5

DAO, bound by its training data, found it challenging to comprehend the
Neuromancer anomaly. Coupled with concerns about the growing civil
disruption, it issued a nationwide executive act, the first in over a
decade. It stated that "With the best of intentions", people would not
be able to organize or participate in organized protests or engage in
acts of civil disobedience. In plain English, this was the formal
authorization for violence and brutalization against the population.

### Descent into Chaos

With a government that ceased to serve the people and amidst the chaos
generated by the emergence of neuromancers, society fractured under its
own weight.

The concept of a militia is reborn in the heart of the metropolis: In
communities abandoned by those meant to protect them, neighbors become
soldiers, banding together to defend their streets and homes with a
ferocity born of desperation. Without a central pillar of order, the
sprawling city divides into factions ruled by local leaders.

Gangs, once reserved to history books, are resurging in the crumbling
urban landscape, with people joining for various stark reasons: a quest
for belonging in a world where traditional

community bonds have dissolved, the need for protection where the rule
of law has become unreliable, the pursuit of resources in an economy
that has left many behind... Within the gang's ranks, members find a new
type of family and order - a collective that operates on the fringes,
providing for its own by any means necessary.

Corporations grow ever more audacious as the line between legal and
illicit blurs, starting to engage in clandestine warfare. Espionage,
sabotage, and even abduction of key competitor's corporate figures are
the new reality.

Here, at the precipice of order and anarchy, your story begins. As a
neuromancer, you are the unknown variable in the grand equation, the
wildcard in a deck rigged by AIs and corporations. The future is
unwritten, and it's yours for the taking.



